Phone Fight v0.3
----------------

Phone Fight is a prototype sword-fighting game for two players
equipped with Nokia N95 or compatible phones. It makes use of the
accelerometer within the phones to detect simulated sword slashes and
blocks, and Bluetooth to communicate those moves between the phones
and to notify the winning player of victory.

It was conceived and coded (hacked) in about twelve hours by a team
from lastminute.com labs over the course of the Over the Air event
held at Imperial College in London on April 4th-5th 2008.

It is implemented using Python for S60.

http://labs.lastminute.com/phonefight
http://www.overtheair.org
http://wiki.opensource.nokia.com/projects/PyS60
http://wiki.forum.nokia.com/index.php/S60_Sensor_API

Installation
------------

Please see the INSTALL file for detailed instructions on how to
install Phone Fight.

Please note that this is a prototype rather than a fully packaged
standalone program, so an amount of technical knowledge is required to
set it up. In particular, there are some prerequisites to install, and
some editing of the fight.py Python script may be necessary to add the
bluetooth addresses of the participating phones.


How to play
-----------

Please see the file PLAYING for instructions on how to play the game.


Safety
------

Remember to stand well back from your opponent when playing. We know
to our cost that it is easy to damage your phone in the heat of
battle. It may also be wise to use a wrist strap.

lastminute.com are not liable for any damage you cause to yourself,
your phone or anything else when playing Phone Fight.


Compatibility
------------

The game has been tested on the original Nokia N95 and the 8GB model
and is known to work (mostly). It may work on similar models such as
the N82.


Known limitations
-----------------

Bugs:

- Both players must give the same answer to the question 'Play again?
  Yes/No'. Failure to do so will cause the script to crash. The
  inter-phone protocol needs to be extended to negotiate this.

- There probably plenty of other bugs. Beware.

Workarounds:

- We have found the Python S60 socket.bt_discover() call to be
  faulty. It causes the Python interpreter to crash. To avoid this, we
  have added the facility to hard-code a list of phone bluetooth
  addresses in the script. To use this facility, amend the script to
  contain the correct names and bluetooth addresses for your group of
  phone fighters, then answer 'No' when the challenger is prompted
  with 'Discover automatically?'

Gameplay inadequacies:

- The program knows about re-orientation of the phone a short while
  after it happens, leading to unexpectedly (un)successful attacks.

- Each player is essentially defending all the time (either
  horizontally or vertically).

- The application is not very pretty to look at.

- This isn't really a very good simulation of a sword fight. It's
  still fun, though.


Potential improvements
----------------------

As well as fixing the above, the following are areas which could be
improved

- Add new sound effects for new types of sword (wooden sword, photon sword...)

- Add a graphical element to the game (perhaps a health bar)

- Incorporate GPS, camera and network functionality...


Program copyright
-----------------

Phone Fight is Free software and is Copyright (C) 2008 lastminute.com
of 39 Victoria Street, London, United Kingdom SW1H 0EU

We offer it in the hope that it will be interesting and entertaining,
but we provide no warranties of any kind.

You may copy, modify and redistribute the program under the terms of
the GNU General Public Licence, version 2. You will find a copy of the
licence in the GPL file.


Sound samples copyright
-----------------------

The samples in the sounds directory were obtained from The Freesound
Project (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/) and are distributed under the
terms of the Creative Commons Sampling Plus 1.0 licence.

You will find details of this licence at:

http://creativecommons.org/licenses/sampling+/1.0/

Samples used from Freesound:
 By Sruddi1 (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/usersViewSingle.php?id=268399)
   Grunts.wav (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/samplesViewSingle.php?id=34875)
 By Erdie (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/usersViewSingle.php?id=118241)
   male-fight02.ogg (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/samplesViewSingle.php?id=44262)
   sword01.wav (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/samplesViewSingle.php?id=27826)
   sword02.ogg (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/samplesViewSingle.php?id=27856)
   sword03.wav (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/samplesViewSingle.php?id=27857)
   sword04.wav (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/samplesViewSingle.php?id=27858)
 By mich3d (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/usersViewSingle.php?id=32482)
   Whoosh_Swish_01.wav (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/samplesViewSingle.php?id=12656)
   Whoosh_Swish_02.wav (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/samplesViewSingle.php?id=12657)
   Whoosh_Swish_03.wav (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/samplesViewSingle.php?id=12658)
 By lostchocolatelab (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/usersViewSingle.php?id=1402)
   10SWORD01.aif (http://freesound.iua.upf.edu/samplesViewSingle.php?id=1464)

We have renamed, converted, cropped and re-pitched these files.


Thanks
------

Our thanks go to the following people:

- Graham Oldfield, the author of the N95 Light Sabre application,
  which inspired this project. http://graho.wordpress.com/

- The creators of the sound effects used in the game (see Copyright
  above) and The Freesound Project.

- Juergen Scheible and Ville Tuulos, the authors of the Mobile Python
  book (ISBN 978-0-470-51505-1), without which we would not have been
  able to code this prototype so quickly.

- The contributors to Forum Nokia, where we picked up a few coding
  tips, and especially to Cyke64 for his axyz module, and Nokia
  themselves for supporting this sort of development on their phones.

- The organisers of the Over The Air event

Enjoy your phone fighting!

The lastminute.com labs team.
